Welcome to the Pokémon TCG AI Battle Challenge Strategy Category Competition!
We are excited to launch the Pokémon TCG AI Battle Strategy Category competition alongside the Simulation Category competition.

This Strategy Category competition focuses on exploring ideas and insights behind building competitive AI Training agents for the Pokémon Trading Card Game (TCG). Participants are encouraged to analyze the strategies, learning methods, and design decisions that contribute to strong performance in environments with many unknown elements, probability, and complex strategic planning.

Beyond the goal of reaching high leaderboard results in the Simulation Category competition, the Strategy Category competition provides participants with an opportunity to share the thinking and experimentation behind their AI Training agents. We hope participants will use this as a chance to present creative approaches, interesting findings, and lessons learned during development.

As with many Kaggle competitions, we also hope this event becomes a place where participants can showcase their skills in reinforcement learning, game AI, and decision-making when dealing with unknown elements.

We look forward to seeing the ideas and insights that emerge from the community. Good luck, and enjoy the challenge!

The Pokémon Company - PTCG AI Battle Challenge Strategy
Analyze data and agentic play supporting the Pokémon Trading Card Game


The Pokémon Company - PTCG AI Battle Challenge Strategy

View Writeups
You haven't created a writeup yet.

Your submission is due by Sep 13, 2026 at 7:59 PM EDT.
Addison Howard · Posted 10 days ago
·
Kaggle Staff
How to Get Started + Competition's Official Discord
Information for First Timers
New to machine learning and data science? No question is too basic or too simple. Feel free to start your own thread, or use this thread as a place to post any first-timer clarifying questions for the Kaggle community to help you with!

New to Kaggle? Take a look at a few videos to learn a bit more about site etiquette, Kaggle lingo, and how to enter a competition using Kaggle Notebooks. Publish and share your models on Kaggle Models!

Looking for a Team? Express your interest in joining a team through our Team Up feature.

Remember: Kaggle is for everyone. Whether you're teaming up or sharing tips in the competition forum, we expect everyone to follow our Kaggle community guidelines.

Competition's Official Discord
In addition to this competition forum, you can continue the discussion in our official Kaggle Discord Server here:

discord.gg/kaggle
The Discord is a great place to ask getting started questions, chat about the nuances of this competition, and connect with potential team mates. Learn more about Discord at our announcement here. Here are a few things to keep in mind though:

1. Discord Competition Channels are 'Public' - Don't Share Private Information

Discord channels for specific competitions are considered 'public' spaces where you are allowed to talk about competition details. Please remember that private sharing of competition code or data outside of your team is, as always, not permitted. Code sharing must always be done publicly through the Kaggle forums/notebooks.

2. Discord Competition Channels are Not Monitored by Staff - Keep Important Information on the Kaggle Forums

Kaggle Staff and Hosts running competitions will not monitor Discord or be available to answer questions in Discord. This is intended to be a more casual space to discuss competitions and help each other. Please keep important questions, insights, writeups, and other valuable conversation on the Kaggle forums.

Happy Modeling!


React
Please verify your phone number to reply to this topic.


1 Comment
Hotness
Addison Howard
Kaggle Staff
Posted 8 days ago

For avoidance of doubt, tips and useful information related to the competition should generally be posted in the official Kaggle Discussion forums. Sharing information only on X or other channels are not recommended and may be a rule violation if they are not publicly available for all participants.




Important Information About this Challenge
We are excited to bring you the Pokémon TCG AI Battle Challenge series alongside The Pokémon Company! We’ve been working hard at making these two competitions as exciting as possible for the Kaggle community and we’re looking forward to what you come up with!

A few things to note that are specific to this competition

Points, Medals and Prizes
You may have noticed that the Simulation competition has points, medals, and no prizes, but the Hackathon competition has prizes. This is intentional. While a hyper-optimized simulation agent is interesting, it doesn’t tell the whole story behind the Pokémon TCG, gameplay, deckcrafting, and underlying strategic decisions that go into playing a top tier deck. You may enter the Simulation competition for Kaggle points and medals without Hackathon participation, but participation in the Simulation is an input for Hackathon scoring.

Also, please check your local laws and regulations that may apply to you to ensure you are eligible to participate in this type of competition. The host teams are unable to make legal interpretations on your behalf.

Simulation Balance Changes
We always test simulation competitions before they’re released to look for any obvious exploits or any significant balance issues that could impact competitiveness. However, it’s impossible to do this perfectly. Should we discover that the competition needs a balance change in order for it to operate as intended, we reserve the right to do so. We don’t intend to make these changes, and make such decisions with significant thought toward being the least disruptive as possible, but it’s sometimes necessary.

Happy Modeling!

Kaggle Team



